---

date: 2015-08-22T00:00:00Z
description: "Can he swim?"
header:
  caption: Rub’ al Khali (Photo by Nepenthes)
  caption_url: http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/User:Nepenthes
  image: desert.jpg
seo_description: "When he submerged himself into the sea for the first time, he discovered something unusual..."
tag:
- Fiction
- Fantasy
- Short Stories
title: A Swimmer From The Desert
type: post
url: /short-stories/a-swimmer-from-the-desert/
---

For the sake of simplicity, we have always called him A, for we do not know what his actual name is (Akxhhhgg-something-something-something-something).
Neither do we know exactly where he came from, except the fact that his homeland was in the middle of a desert. When we met him for the first time in our town, thousands of miles away from his home, he could not speak our tongue at all, and for the first few days of our acquaintance with him, we could only point to things. Though he was a quick learner, and within a week or two, from the mumbling between his lips, which were trying to form the right shapes to say the correct words, we learned that he came from a place surrounded by sand. He did not know the word “desert” just yet, so instead of referring to one using that word, he pointed to the sand on the beach just in front of us and did a few gestures, implying that there was a lot of sand.

The way he managed to travel from a desert to a beach town remains an unanswered question. We were the first people who discovered him lying on the beach, unconscious; his body was soaked with water, and his skin was bruised and cut everywhere. There was a strange storm just a few moments before we discovered him. We were all seeking shelter from the rain and gust when something dark first appeared in the vicinity of our eye-sights. At first, we did not take that very seriously, until one of us asked the rest of our group if that dark thing was a whale or something being washed up from the shore as the storm broke. Nobody had any idea, and we could only find out by ourselves when the storm ended and the sun crept out from the dark cloud. Immediately, we carried him to the little café we sought shelter in, and the owner of the café, who was a little old lady, called the emergency service without any delay. We all went to the hospital with A. He was very fortunate that his injuries turned out to be quite minor despite being battered by the storm and despite having travelled with the storm for thousands of miles. I say he travelled with the storm, because that was what he apparently did. When his ability to speak our language became sufficiently proficient to form complete sentences, he said: “I is blowed off from me haus, and I is falling to da da da beeatch.”
We were all shock beyond belief when he informed us of that: we looked at each other, speechless. For one thing, he should have been torn into pieces and killed if he were blown to the beach by a storm, and the nearest desert we knew was so far away that his account of the journey seemed impossible and unbelievable. He, however, persisted to insist that it was true a few days later when his language skill improved still a little bit more: “I am blowed off from me… my house… in da desert, and I fall to da da da da beeatch.” What kind of magical wind could blow a person off for such a distance without mortally wounding him was beyond us, but without any other explanation, we could only accept this version of event, however magical it sounded.

In the first few weeks, he appeared quite depressed. Once he learned the word “home,” he kept saying that he would like to go home. No one knew where his home was, of course; not even he himself, for he had never left his homeland for all his life before the storm, and he had no awareness that there was a world beyond mountains of sand and camels and cactus. Had the storm brought him from the East or the South or the West or the North? Even that he could not tell. After he had recovered from his wounds, we brought him to the beach one day and walked him to the place where the blue sea water and the white sand met. He muttered something as if frightened, with his eyes wide open, his blood vessels throbbing, and his whole body shivering. No one knew what he was thinking at that time, but seeing his reaction to the sea, we brought him back to the little café to sooth him. A long time later — well after he could speak our language good enough for us to understand him without too much difficulty — we asked him why. He explained that he was scared by the sight of the vast quantity of water, because he had never seen it.

Before long, he caught the sight of people jumping into the water, and he appeared quite puzzled, for he did not understand what the point that was. He had never seen people swimming in the sea, and there was no analogous activity in his desert (can you swim in sand? he once joked). Was this activity for fun, for survival, or for imbeciles? That he could not tell. Though he understood it soon enough when we ourselves took turn to plunge into the sea, and he watched some of us from the shore, at first frightened, but soon amazed. Having lived on sand for all his life with water thin on supply, the idea of having his whole body submerged by this precious commodity for the desert was not only unthinkable, but almost sinful (he did not know drinking sea water is dangerous).

We did not make much effort to lure him into the water other than appearing to have fun, which we did, and he took his first steps to put his bare feet into the water some months later. When his large feet touched the sea water for the first time, his eyes watched his submerged feet with innocence and amazement. His feet, like everyone else’s in the water, seemed flattened by the refraction of lights, and the chill from the water passed to his spine. Since he was only familiar with the sensation of hot sand, his first contact with sea water must have felt like us playing with snow for the first time. One step at a time, he slowly submerged his whole body except his head into the water. We kept our watchful eyes on him, for we knew that he had never swum, and we did not want him killed by the water. To his surprise as well as ours, as he walked deeper into the sea, his feet left the sea-floor, and he began to float. “What happened?” he asked in shock. He had never experienced this before, and he assumed that human who could float in water were either wizards or with evil spirit. That he could perform such feat frightened him, but soon he floated leisurely with his head facing the blue sky and his feet kicking and paddling: he knew how to swim without ever learning how, as if he were born with the skill. He had the talent for something that he had never had a chance to do until now. In no time, he became a better swimmer than many of us, who have lived by the sea for a long time.

Many months later, after he had mastered enough our language, he told us he had never before felt what he felt the moment he swam for the first time. Even though he grew up in the desert, he had never felt this concerning his survival skills in the desert. “I was often laughed at,” he recalled, “I was clumsy in the sand; I can’t even walk properly on sand, they said. The camels seemed to hate me when I rode them or milked them. I was not a happy. My brothers always laughed at me, and my parents always scolded me for being useless. I had no friends. I felt I was born in the wrong place.”

But here, he feels at home: even more so than his actual home. He no longer asks us to bring him back to what he now calls his ex-home.
